Adding a button to the header as I wanted here such a navigation button requires a bit of extra work
initially but their offer is very straightforward.
We have first of all need to install an extra package to make it easier because theoretically you have
a lot of power here.
You can add such buttons with the help of the navigation options.
So here on the meal detailed screen beside setting a header title you can set header left and had a
right to add buttons on the left of the right of the title.
Typically you want to use right because the left is reserved for the back button and generally you can
simply return a j as X element there.
So you can simply set this to text like favorite data something you could do here and actually let me
show this to you and therefore restart the server before we use a package.
Because whilst you can just add a component here getting the styling right the positioning right for
all the different platforms as specially if you're not just using text here but also maybe an icon which
you typically want to have there that can be really cumbersome and That's while we'll install extra
package that makes that way easier than it otherwise is
so let me restart this with NPM start not npm install NPM start and with that running again.
Let's reload this here and Iow let me show you what we have here now that I render a text.
You see this text here.
So this is getting rendered.
But as I said having the right padding the lot right alignment to write style the right size.
Super annoying if you do it all on your own because you're not just doing this for one device but for
many devices.
That's why I will actually install a special package here which helps us with this.
So quit the process for now the running deaths a death process and use npm install dash dash save and
install the react dash navigation dash header Dash Buttons packet which is a package that helps you
surprisingly if you have a look at the name with setting up some buttons in your header so in that top
toolbar here does a package which then will make it really easy to add such buttons with it add added
I'll restart my dual open server with NPM start and now I'll try the new helper component myself in
the components folder which will name helper by a header button not helper header button there I'll
import react from react because this will be a normal react component which we create in their and import
something from this new react navigation header buttons package we just installed and that's something
which I import is header button besides dead let's also import something from at Expo slash vector icons
which should be a way lable but just to be super safe you can definitely also run npm install dash dash
save at Expo slash vector icons to install this package as well because you'll need that
and the thing we need to import from that package is ironic once of course you can use any I can set
you want I covered icons earlier in this course and you're free to use any I can you want in your head
or button I'll just work with I only comes because I use them in the rest of this course as well but
again you can use any icons you want and of course in the header you don't have to use icons you could
use our text as well but typically you do use icons of course that's what users typically are used to
from well other apps.
In addition I'll also import colors from Constance colors and now create my component here.
That's the let's say custom header button or just header button whatever you want to name it but we're
already importing this that we have to pick a different name here to not have a name clash.
And this will receive some props and we'll return the header button we're getting from this package
which we installed but we'll soon add some extra configuration which is why I'm wrapping this in a separate
component so that we don't have to repeat that configuration for every button we're using anywhere in
the app.
And then of course I'll export my default custom header button.
So now it does header button I'm using here from this package we installed that will first of all receive
all props we're getting with this nice little trick we can use and react where we forward all props
with this shortcut by pulling out all the key value pairs and passing them to this object which just
component in the end is.
So that's the first thing we need to forward all the props and that's super important.
Don't forget this.
Otherwise it will not work correctly.
The second step is that we add the icon component prop with a capital I.
That's a prop the header button we're getting from this package expects and there I pass an ionic and
so this expects vector I can package which can be used for rendering icons doesn't have to be ionic
pins but has to be from either at Expo vector icons or from the underlying react native vector icons
package on which the expo package is based on and you can also parse an icon size and I will standardize
this so that all my header buttons across the entire app have the same size of 20 free which I found
to work quite well last but not least I'll also set up a color here and I'll use my primary color though
of course we have to make sure that we differentiate by platform so I'll also import platform from react
native because on Android our header will have the primary color as a background so they are we want
to use I can color of white.
So here all check platform OS if debts equal to Android then I want to use white here and only if it's
ISIS I want to use the primary color.
So now we have to pre configured header button.
Now we can use that in the place in the component where we want to add it to our header and that's the
meal detail screen in this case there.
We now need to import something else from the newly installed package.
So from react navigation header buttons from this package here we have to install or import header but
tense so not header button which we use in the other file but header buttons plural we add this here
because now down there where we set up the navigation options for this component instead of using our
text component there I want to use header buttons.
This component I just added the import for and wrapped is around another element.
We have to import from react navigation header buttons and that's item item is number component we import
which we can now use between the opening and closing tax of the header buttons.
So here we add item and item as a self closing component where we describe the icon we want to render
in the end we can always gives us a title which would be rendered as a fallback and all named his favorite
but we normally won't see this instead here.
I can also set up I can name it now.
This should be for example Iowa's star which is a valid eye on Eakins icon and you can search that Expo
vector icons list I showed you earlier in the course which you also find attached to this video for
possible icons you can use here.
Just make sure that you use an icon from the icon set you used in your header buttons on my case from
my own icons.
Now this indicates which I can use.
Now here we can also add on press to register a function that should be triggered when that I can is
pressed or when that item in the header is pressed.
And for now I'll just say Mark as favourite here locked us in the console so that we see that this worked.
We're not entirely there yet because we're not using our custom header button.
That's the last missing piece.
We need to import this component to be created.
So import header button from components and then there from header button that's Dee button we worked
on and we passed this two header buttons here because this expects a header button component prop where
we point at the component that should be used to render this item in the end.
Now this is all very complex as you can tell a lot of nested components.
Does is just a setup which is a little bit cumbersome the first time you do it but when you then use
it in other components it's really just all about copying the same setup here.
Changing the title changing the icon and changing the logic and your data.
So that's all you have to do in the future.
It's just initial setup that said that some extra work here with all that setup.
However if we now save this
we should be able to see our star here does this the eye can we see and we can press this and as I press
it you'll see Mark as favourite is getting locked here in the console also see that on Android there
we always have to start and if I press this star here we also see Mark as favourite.
So that's working little side note I just saw if we have multiple recipes we might want some extra styling
they're totally unrelated to the header button just seeing it so in the meal item J.S. fall on the meal
item I'll actually add some margin vertical of 10 again.
Totally not something you need here just there to make sure that this looks nicer if we have multiple
items.
Important thing here of course is that we have our header button this icon and this is how you can add
buttons or icons items here to your header.
And of course you can add more than one here name you'll detail a screen you can have multiple such
items between the header buttons here which is set up on header right on the navigation options.
This is how you add items here.
You can have more than one for example here we could all have Iowa's star outline which is another icon
which looks a bit different so that you can see the difference here.
Now we have queue here.
So that's possible of course you shouldn't overload this so that your UI stays clean and just works
but this is how you can add icons here to your screen by the way the warning I'm getting here regarding
the double keys the title here is also used as a key for your items.
So if you have multiple items you shouldn't use the same title.
But I just added this for demonstration purposes anyways so I'll simply get rid of it and we're good.
Now our star icon doesn't do anything yet.
That's something we'll add later but at least we see it and that's really important in a module where
we talk about navigation and working with the header.